good afternoon and welcome to today's
briefing where I am joined by Angela
McLain the deputy chief scientific
adviser I want to begin by updating you
on the latest data relating to the
corona virus outbreak two million seven
hundred and seventy two thousand five
hundred and fifty two tests for corona
virus have now been carried out in the
UK including eighty nine thousand seven
hundred and eighty four tests carried
out yesterday two hundred and forty
eight thousand eight hundred and
eighteen people have tested positive and
that's an increase of two thousand four
hundred and twelve cases since yesterday
ten thousand and twenty five people are
currently in hospital with the corona
virus that's down 17 percent from the
eleven thousand seven hundred and
sixteen this time last week and sadly of
those who've tested positive for corona
virus across all settings thirty-five
thousand three hundred and forty-one
have now died and that's an increase of
five hundred and forty five fatalities
since yesterday and of course our
thoughts are with the families of all of
those who've lost their lives to this
virus before I turn to some of the work
that Dara is doing to ensure that we are
able to harvest this year's farm harvest
I want to remind people of the details
of the next phase of our fight against
the corona virus personally on slide one
as you can see in order to monitor our
progress we are establishing a new kovat
alert system with five levels each
relating to the level of threat posed by
the virus the alert level will be based
primarily on the r-value and the number
of corona virus cases and in turn that
alert level will determine the level of
social distancing measures in place the
lower the level the fewer the measures
the higher the level the stricter the
measures throughout the period of
lockdown which started on March the 23rd
we were at level four thanks to the hard
work and sacrifices of the British
people
in this lockdown we have helped to bring
the our level down and we are now in a
position to begin moving to level three
in careful steps
turning now to slide two we have set out
the first of three steps we will take to
carefully modify the measures gradually
ease the lockdown and begin to allow
people to return to their way of life
but crucially do this while avoiding
what would be a second peak that
overwhelms the NHS after each step we
will closely monitor the impact of the
step of that step on the r-value and the
number of infections and all the
available data and we will only take the
next step when we are satisfied that it
is safe to do so so in step one as the
prime-minister allowance last week those
who cannot work from home should now
speak to their employer about going to
work and people can now spend time
outdoors and exercise as often as they
like finally turning to slide three
having taken the first step in carefully
adjusting some of the measures and our
advice to people on what to do our clear
advice is to stay alert control the
virus and save lives and staying alert
means staying at home as much as
possible and working from home if this
is possible limiting contact with other
people and where contact is made with
other people keeping your distance
washing your hands regularly and also
staying at home itself isolating if you
or a household member shows symptoms of
the virus my final point today relates
to the availability of labor this year
for the farming harvest every year large
numbers of people come from countries
such as Romania and Bulgaria to take
part in the harvest harvesting crops
such as strawberries and salads and
vegetables we estimate that probably
only about a third of the people that
would normally come are already here and
small numbers may continue to travel but
one thing is clear and that is that this
year
we will need to rely on British workers
to lend a hand to help bring that
harvest home over the last couple of
months we have been working with
industry on a plan to support and help
people taking second jobs particularly
those who are furloughed and we have
launched a new pic for Britain website
that enables people to go online check
what jobs there are what job
availability there is and to marry up
job opportunities from growers and
employers with those people seeking a
second job particularly those that are
furloughed and we believe that those who
are furloughed may be getting to the
point that they want to lend a hand and
play their part they may be wanting to
get out and they may be wanting to
supplement their income with an
additional job and if those if they do
feel that way I would urge them to visit
that website and to look at the
opportunities that are there I will now
turn to Angela MacLean who will give you
further updates on the coronavirus thank
you
pack it out the next slide please this
slide shows the way people are moving
around using their own their own cars
like goods vehicles or heavy goods
vehicles or in public transport in a
three graphs on the bottom the data runs
from the 16th of March to the 17th of
May and what we see is that although
there is some increase in the use of
private cars and also in like goods
vehicles and heavy goods vehicles that
the reduction in the use of public
transport whether that be national rail
tube and buses in London or buses
elsewhere fell very low and has stayed
very low that is very good news for all
of us because it means that people are
continuing to respect the fact that if
we can we must stay at home in order to
prevent the transmission of this virus
next slide please
so this next slide in the top there in
red shows the number of tests being done
each day and what you see is that it's
been very much higher really for the
second half of that graph so the graph
runs from the 6th of April to the 19th
of May on the 19th of May there were 89
thousand seven hundred eighty-four tests
and what that translates into is daily
confirmed test so hats sorry daily
confirmed cases so each day how many
people across all sorts of different
settings had a positive test it's quite
difficult to interpret that green graph
because it's in the context of lots of
different people being allowed to be
tested and indeed of course a lot lots
and lots of extra testing become effect
becoming available and when I want to
know what's happening every day with
corona virus infections factly the next
slide please
I turn to data from hospitals and the
estimates of the number of new daily
admissions into hospitals each day so we
have this time series best for England
so I tend to look at the English data
and what you see there so that's really
the flow of infected people into
hospitals and it's therefore much more
sensitive way of keeping track of what's
happening across the country so what you
see is a graph that rose sharply from
the beginning of March it had always
really risen before then and peaked on
April the second and that's actually
exactly the date that we would have
expected it to peak given the lockdown
that we all took on board on the 23rd of
March and the fact that it would take
about 10 days for that sudden drop in
the number of new infections to turn
into the southern drop that you see
there in the number of people arriving
in hospital that coded and then what you
see is that that has fallen fairly
steadily since then it's not falling
quite as fast as it was right at the
very beginning and that is a cause of
for debate about why is that and a
different way of keeping track of
how much how much infection is there in
hospital is to look at the numbers get
numbers of people who are really ill so
the bottom graph there is to do with
people who need mechanical ventilation
so those are the people who are really
most ill and what it shows is of all the
the facilities that we have so of all
the beds in hospital where there is a
mechanical ventilator how many of them
are being used by a patient who is
infected with kovat and what you see is
that that Peaks not surprisingly a
little bit later than the the peak and
new admissions because of course this is
now a much longer you can only appear
once in in in you can only be a new
admission wants but of course you can be
in a hospital bed for lots and lots of
days and so you see that with a later
peak a flatter peak and a slower decline
but nevertheless a sustained decline
across all four of our nation's next
slide please
this breaks out the number of people in
hospital with coded 19 right across the
UK so we have it for the four nations of
England Northern Ireland Wales and
Scotland but England is then broken up
into different regions if we look at and
you can see that there is a fair bit of
variability across the different nations
and the different regions what you see
is that some for some regions the number
of people in hospital is has fallen
rapidly and is still falling quite
rapidly and for others the number of
people in hospital whilst it's still
falling is not falling as fast as in
other places next slide please
here we see people who have sadly died
from coded with a confirmed positive
test here across the UK mister graph
that we're familiar with and we know
that the numbers are always very low on
Saturdays and Sundays and for that
reason because this is very pronounced
weekly pattern in the cases we we look
instead of at the the raw numbers the
blue
we look at the gold line and that's a
seven-day rolling average so we use that
on purpose because we want to average
out the effect of the the weekend effect
and what you see with that with that
rolling average is that there is a
steady decline in the number of
confirmed cobra deaths here next slide
please
there are several different ways of
counting how many people have died
because of this pandemic here in the UK
and here at a couple of different ones
so the first the top graph there runs
from the 14th of March to the 19th of
May and what it compares is ons data on
weekly deaths with coded 19 confirmed or
suspected so that's the higher Purple
Line or weekly deaths with Kovach
confirmed with a positive test so you
can imagine that not everybody who is
suspected of dying with kovat has
actually had a positive test that's why
the blue line lies underneath the purple
line and then the graph the bar graph
below it breaks those deaths out into
deaths that occurred in hospital deaths
that occurred in care homes at home or
in other places and what we see is that
every one of those different colored
bars is now falling deaths in hospital
is falling deaths in care homes is also
falling and as our deaths at home and
other deaths so whilst we remain very
sad that and and really our hearts go
out to the families of all those people
we do look at these falling deaths with
some sense of relief that these numbers
are consistently falling across sectors
now thank you very much
thank you very much Angela turning now
to the first of our questions from the
public I think we have a video question
from Khajiit
I'd like to understand what the UK
government are doing in terms of
gathering data and information from
other countries across the world in
Europe that have eased lockdown
restrictions in terms of taking lessons
learned from their approach and using
those on our own journey to easing the
restrictions thank you thank you very
much cold you know I think that is a
very important question we've known from
the beginning of this epidemic that
we've been roughly two to three weeks
behind Italy and France we've seen the
trajectory of the epidemic in those
countries seen how they responded many
of the approaches that we've taken have
obviously been very similar to those
countries and of course in in many other
areas that we are considering now
including potentially having quarantine
at the border for arrivals were also
seeking to learn lessons from the
approach taken from some of those other
countries I may ask whether Angela has
any particular points she wants to to
add from an epidemiological point of
view I think that those points are very
good and that it's it's obviously really
really important in a very good point
that we need to look to our near
neighbours and also countries further
away to learn what works and how long it
takes to see if something is working or
not working the two I would draw a
particular lessons from would be South
Korea where I feel they've made
inspiring use of all kinds of different
contact tracing in order to control
infection to an extent that they are now
down to handfuls of new cases every day
and when they say new cases they mean
people they found in the community
because of their contact tracing efforts
and I think that is an experience that
we are aiming to emulate the other
country I would look to as Germany where
the importance of testing has has always
been so clear and from that as a place
from where we have learned that we need
to grow our testing facility and have
grown office testing facility Thank You
courgette
thank you very much and the next
question we have I think it's a written
one which is from Nick from Gatwick and
his question is for those of us that
work in sectors which we cannot return
to work
aviation hospitality etc will we see the
government increasing the length of
payment holidays for both mortgages and
loans to ensure we can financially
weather this storm - and Nick I think
the point that I would make on this is
that really soon at the Chancellor has
announced an unprecedented and very
comprehensive package to support both
businesses during this time of crisis
but also employees that are affected so
businesses are able to access the
coronavirus business interruption loan
and there have also been a number of
other grants to help small businesses
and business rates have been set aside
and in the case of employees in those
businesses we've obviously had the
furlough scheme the job retention scheme
it's now the case that around 8 million
people are furloughed under that scheme
and I know that the Chancellor is
thinking very carefully about how that
can evolve as we go through these
various stages because it is the case as
you point out in your question that
there will be sectors in areas such as
hospitality or in the restaurant trade
or in aviation and others where it's
very difficult for business do you get
back to anything close to normal for
some time and I know that the Treasury
will be thinking very carefully about
how the job retention scheme that we
have can evolve to help support those
businesses as they tentatively try to
return to business in July I will move
on now to some of the questions from the
journalists starting with Sophie
Hutchinson from the BBC good afternoon
you were just saying how inspired you
are by South Korea and Germany the
contact tracing and testing that's been
going on there do you regret the
decision that the government made in
March to abandon that sort of tracing in
the community well I think the point
that I would make on the
testing and tracing is we've been
expanding ramping up that testing
capacity over the last couple of months
we got it to 100,000 capacity by the end
of April we're continuing to build that
this week Matt Hancock has made clear
that anybody over the age of five with
symptoms can get a test and it's also
the case that we've now recruited over
20,000 people to assist with contract
contact tracing so that we can help to
track down infections and hot spots for
this virus as we try to emerge from
lockdown I think it's the case that you
know early on in this epidemic clearly
there was a priority to make sure that
people showing symptoms who worked in
the NHS because of their close proximity
with patients had those tests so there
was priority given to those but we are
now in the position where we're able to
offer
testing to anybody over the age of five
with symptoms and that's going to be
quite crucial to developing our track
and trace capabilities in the months
ahead and Rosa I think I would agree
that at the time with the testing we had
the right thing to do was to focus it on
people who were really sick in hospital
so we knew who in hospital had Co fit so
it was the right thing to do it the time
sofie's anything else you doctor yes
just to ask so you would agree therefore
that your strategy has been based on
capacity rather than the science well
it's the it's undoubtedly the case that
early on we were wanting to build that
capacity and we pointed out before there
were countries like Germany that
naturally had more capacity existing in
their economy we were building it very
rapidly from a very for a very early
stage and we have now got to the point
as Matt ant pointed out this week that
we can offer tests to anybody over the
age of five with symptoms and that's
going to be pretty critical in terms of
developing that track and trace
capability next we have John ray from
ITV hi there good afternoon a question
to each of you
please about the return to school I
wonder if you were both except the deep
profound and very sincere fears of
teachers and parents about heading back
to school beginning at the beginning in
June and for you Minister this question
when so much has quite obviously gone
wrong with the government's leadership
of this crisis track and tracing PPE
care homes you can't really blame
teachers for not believing you when it
comes to returning to school and for the
scientist please and frankly isn't it
just too early to conclude that the
science says that it's safe to return to
schools well jhonny won't surprise you
to know that I I don't share your
caricature of the government's approach
in this of course there have been
challenges along the way in these
extraordinary times who are in on a
number of fronts other countries have
experienced similar challenges the
government has grappled with what's been
a very difficult situation and made
timely decisions and taken action to
ensure that we had the capacity we
needed to deal with this epidemic and so
for instance we constructed very quickly
all of those Nightingale hospitals that
gave us that additional capacity should
that have been needed in the steps we
took meant that we were able to flatten
the curve of this virus better than some
had expected us to be able to but on the
specific issue of schools we're working
very closely with the teaching unions
and with school leaders on our approach
to this we do believe that it's
important that initially we get the year
ones and year six is back into a school
environment to help prepare them for the
move up to secondary school in the case
of the latter but also to help settle in
the younger children in the former and
we do believe that other countries like
Denmark have demonstrated how it's
possible in fact to bring schools back
into opening albeit in a socially
distance way
albeit with fewer pupils initially and
staggering that the the times that year
groups arrive and so on so other other
countries have demonstrated ways that
this can be done and linking to the
question that was raised by Col G's at
the beginning of this question session I
think it is important that we learn from
those other countries and that's exactly
what we're trying to do my final point
is we should bear in mind that
throughout all of this crisis I
completely understand that there is
apprehension and anxiety of those who
are being asked to return to work but
there are some sectors like the NHS like
police like the food sector who have
continued to work and in the case of the
food industry have continued to work and
done so successfully by putting in place
social distancing measures so we don't
underestimate that there are challenges
and there's a job to do to reassure
people but we do believe it's right to
embark on this as other countries have
yes thank you John
our scientists have been very clear in
our advice that changes to lock down as
we modelled them need a highly effective
trace and isolate system to be in place
and we're also very clear that any
change the social distancing measures
should be based upon observed levels of
incidents in places that those going to
be changed and not on a fixed date okay
John is there anything else you wanted
to eat each of you to the scientists as
I understand it the track and trace will
not be in place fully in place by the
1st of June so does that affect the
scientific advice you you're giving will
it be safe to reopen schools and until
you Minister you seem to be accepting
that the decision to send children back
to school is not a scientific one but a
political calculation you know even if
that means that there is an aspect of
risk for other children so we're getting
a full update on Thursday of exactly
what's going to be in place and when so
perhaps you think we party to knowledge
that I'm not party to
so what I'm gonna wait until see what I
get told on Thursday about what's gonna
be in place by when and and John Lucas
it's absolutely the case it as we evolve
our policy from from lochia into
something more nuanced with easements
being progressively rolled out in
several stages they were the course of
this summer of course absolutely we are
following the science on this and just
as other countries like Denmark who've
also embarked on a similar journey are
also following the science so I don't
accept that it's putting the science to
one side but it is absolutely the case
that all of us are going to have to live
alongside this virus for some time to
come and we do need to try to live our
lives and identify ways of returning to
work as far as possible and to put in
place those social distancing measures
and that's what's happening that's
what's something from day one in
supermarkets as people will have seen
it's what's happened in day one in the
NHS you've probably been dealing with
people affected by the virus and it's
the case that as other walks of life get
back to something closer to normality we
do have to identify ways of doing that
while observing the social distancing
the next question is Andy Bell from
channel 5 thank you very much today the
chief executive of care England has told
the parliamentary committee that people
were discharged from hospital back into
care homes when they were either
symptomatic or simply didn't have any
covert 19:00 status they hadn't been
tested
I mean Secretary of State how was that
allowed to happen as a policy and Dame
Angela was there any scientific advice
given at the time about doing that well
look we don't accept the the caricature
that that we took an approach that was
wrong very early on in this epidemic we
had protocols in place for care homes
there was guidance as to how they should
approach things as the situation
developed then more stringent policies
were introduced by
of policy around discharge and we got to
the point that everybody was tested
before discharge but in those those
early weeks there will have been some
instances where people may have been
discharged who were asymptomatic and
there there may have been some small
number of instances where there may have
been showing symptoms what would have
been isolated and that was the guidance
at the time that was in place but we
have strengthened that very much ever
since then we now have testing and a
much a very rigorous discharge policy
that's in place and that is getting
stronger all the time and it is
reassuring well it's obviously a tragedy
to see the number of deaths that we've
had through this epidemic it is
reassuring as Angela said earlier that
we've passed the peak epidemic that was
taking place in care homes and the
number of deaths a number of infections
is now declining I can't answer that
question without going back to the exact
list of what advice was given when I
don't want to give you an answer that's
not correct so if you'll forgive me I
could be take notice of that question is
that okay you can get back to you it
leads on to another question I have
which is that so that the the chair of
the Science and Technology Committee
today has said that the advice given by
scientists is too secretive in this
whole process that more should be
published I mean do both of you think
that would be a good idea do you think
that would lead to better
decision-making well I don't really
accept Andy that that it is secretive we
have been having these briefings on a
daily basis for weeks and weeks now and
this is my fourth time doing this daily
press conference and at every one of
those occasions I've either had somebody
from the chief scientific advisors
department or from public health England
or the NHS alongside me and I think
we've been very candid in sharing with
people at every step of the way exactly
what we are doing and why we are doing
it and what the evidence shows complete
with graphs that show the trajectory and
the trends and the epidemiology behind
this outbreak so I I don't really
that criticism at all I think we've been
very candid throughout this in terms of
sharing knowledge with people and
sharing our approach with people I can
tell we've been really very very focused
on trying to give really high quality
advice completely rooted in evidence I
can assure you that every conversation
we are always challenging each other's
say what is the evidence for that you
know our job is to give science advice
here and make sure everything we see is
we say is is rooted in good quality
science I have to admit that I haven't
spent much time worrying about how
secretive or not secretive it is I can
see that is going to be a big issue when
we have a big look back I'd be more
inclined to to address that then I
realize that's not a that that's not
what you want me to say I know but I
don't see any I don't think that's the
most interesting conversation I would
say I said the most interesting
conversation is are we able to give good
advice thank you very much next we have
Jane Merrick from the I thank you and I
want to follow up on Sophie's question
first of all today I'm Angela in
February a w-h-o china report said that
community testing and contact tracing
was the best way to tackle coronavirus
so was the decision then on the 12th of
March to scale back on community testing
and contact tracing in the UK was that
based on sound scientific advice and to
the secretary of state who takes
ultimate responsibility for these
decisions and for that decision on the
12th of March is it the ministers or the
scientists offering the advice the
advice that we gave was certainly took
account of what testing was available it
was what was the best thing to do with
the test that we had we could not have
people in hospital with coffered
symptoms not knowing whether or not they
had kovat and as I explained earlier
Jane we have been expanding dramatically
our testing capacity over the
over recent weeks and months simply
because it is going to be a very
important feature of that track and
trace approach that we're developing and
we've recruited now over twenty traces
to work on that and as we evolved this
policy and emerge from full lockdown to
something where we try to support people
getting back to work normally having
that track and trace approach is going
to be increasingly important and that's
why we are increasing that capacity as I
pointed out earlier the beginning of
this when there was an issue of capacity
on test then of course you needed to
prioritize where those tests were most
needed and that was in our NHS you
couldn't have a situation where people
working the NHS did not know whether
they had the coronavirus or not so it
was right to initially prioritize the
tests for that particular outcome and
just to go back to Dame Angela then I
mean your colleague sir patrick valence
told the science committee on the 25th
of March that he wished that there had
there was more capacity available so are
you saying then that even given the sort
of the international expertise on
coronavirus it was just what was
available at the time the capacity that
was available at the time that was the
best advice that you could give in the
context of that capacity I think that's
what I just said yes okay right thank
you very much Jane and next we have
Stefan from Citi a.m. Thank You
Secretary of State David Frost and the
UK negotiating team have said on
multiple occasions that one of the key
contentions contentious area story of
negotiations has been fishing policy and
that if there isn't any movement on
these talks by tune that the deal will
be unlikely to go through this would
mean that the City of London is locked
out of lucrative EU markets with this in
mind can you tell me what the government
is prioritizing higher the City of
London and vital services firms which
contributes 7 percent of GDP to the
economy or the fishing industry which
to 0.1% and today Manjula is there any
chance of the lockdown being lifted
entirely in remote island or or isolated
communities in the UK who haven't had
any arm recorded cases of coconut it
thank you very much Stefan the the short
answer is we in this negotiation are
prioritizing becoming an independent
self-governing country again we want to
make our own decisions make our own laws
control our own waters yes set our own
fishing policy have a seat at the table
where fishing opportunities are
negotiated each year not only with our
EU members but also with with countries
such as Norway and the Pharos and we
believe that the interests of our
economy are best served by us taking
back control and making our own laws
again and that is the approach we're
taking and so as David Frost has pointed
out there are a couple of sticking
points so far in these negotiations one
is that the European Union seemed to be
insisting that we continue to abide by
their laws even after we've left and the
second is that the European Union's seem
to be saying that uniquely among every
other country in the world the UK should
give unlimited access to its waters for
EU countries even though we're not any
longer part of the Common Fisheries
Policy and both of those as a point of
principle are wrong and that is why
we've adopted the stance that we have
well you know you can't ask me what
policy might be but you can ask me what
kind of question the scientists looking
at and I can tell you for sure
location is a huge focus of ours at the
moment of course I mean our island
Islands are a very special case which is
of course particularly interesting but
there are also other parts of the
country that have you know the spread of
infection across the country is really
quite diverse quite heterogeneous and
that does of course raise interesting
questions particularly as we get
incidents right right down about what
should we do about that Stefan did you
ever come back again I do understand the
Russian
or the fishing policy and negotiations
that are going by but can you say today
definitively if there will not be
suffering for the sake of financial
services firms which contribute so much
to the UK economy getting access to e
market which is so important for them
well look I just think in this approach
it's very important that you're clear
about your priorities and one of ours is
to become an independent coastal state
in control of our own waters again and
managing and controlling access to our
waters that's been our position from the
very beginning and it will not change
and I think it's not something to get
into to be saying you have to sacrifice
one industry in order to give a leg up
to another that's not the way to
approach this negotiation the way to
approach it is to stand up for our
interests as an independent country and
that's the approach that we are taking
now next we have been Fyshwick from the
Portsmouth News Thank You Secretary of
State and even with extra government
funding councils are struggling to cover
their increased costs during this crisis
can you commit to matching pound per
pound their expenditure and cover any
budget shortfalls caused by loss of
income and then separately on testing we
have a testing center in Portsmouth but
several of our readers have were tested
on the 1st of May waited for two weeks
for a result despite being told it would
be arriving in 48 to 72 hours later 14
days after their tests several of them
were told their results were unclear is
there the capability to ensure a proper
turnaround of testing well been on your
latter point we we do we do recognise it
there there have been a few reports of
people not getting the results to their
tests as quickly as they would expect
and it's also the case that there are
instances where a test result comes back
as inconclusive and sometimes second
tests have to take place and I might ask
angel in a moment to say a bit more on
that on your former point about local
authorities of course the government
recognizes that
this coronavirus outbreak has put
pressure on local authorities we've
recognized that and we've given them an
additional 3.2 billion pounds to help
them cope with the new burdens that that
have been in place we've also made
available 600 million pounds to support
care homes and and help them respond to
this crisis so yes we recognize that
there are new burdens on local
authorities as a result of this and and
we've we've put in place some additional
funding to recognize that and I
completely appreciate that local
authorities will always say that they
need further funding and you know in
situations like this they will have
funds set aside for events of this sort
and we think that the the approach that
we've taken with that 3.2 billion pound
injection is the the appropriate
intervention from government to support
them in the really important work that
they're doing Angela did you want to add
anything on the I think really running a
rapid and reliable testing system is an
entirely operational issue and so the
science advice would be you need to have
a rapid and reliable testing system okay
Ben is there any final thing you want to
do are you confident we do have a rapid
and reliable testing the system I think
is I think it's getting better and we
one of the things we've actually looked
at a lot today is is evidence from other
countries and it clearly is possible to
set up testing systems with a 48-hour
turnaround okay thank you very much Ben
and and thank you to everyone for those
questions I think we've covered a large
amount of ground today
thank you very much so that's the end of
today's Downing Street briefing on
coronaviruses take you through some of
the main points that were covered there
in that Downing Street briefing led by
the environment secretary George Eustace
who announced that there had been a
further 545 kovat 19 deaths confirmed
with a pose
test in the last day now that means the
official number of people across the UK
who are known to have died with the
virus is thirty five thousand three
hundred and forty one in terms of test
eighty nine thousand seven hundred
eighty four tests were provided in the
last day now you know remember the
government has promised to carry out a
hundred thousand tests a day by the end
of April and two hundred thousand by the
end of May as well and the environment
secretary said that farmers will need
more help from British workers this year
to bring in the harvest he said he hopes
British workers will be able to find
jobs on farms via a new online
recruitment hub called pic for britain
he urged furloughed and unemployed
workers to sign up to help get the
harvest in
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC dr. dot UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News